<h1 class="display-4">LynxKite Evaluation User License</h1>

<p>
PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING SOFTWARE END USER LICENSE AGREEMENT TERMS AND CONDITIONS (<b>“EULA”</b>)
CAREFULLY BEFORE DOWNLOADING OR USING THE SOFTWARE ACCOMPANYING THE EULA. THE EULA CONSTITUTES A
LEGAL AND BINDING AGREEMENT BETWEEN YOU AND LYNX ANALYTICS PTE. LTD. (<b>“LYNX”</b>), AND YOU AGREE
AND ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THIS EULA IS SOLELY EXECUTED BETWEEN LYNX AND YOU AND IS SOLELY RESPONSIBLE FOR
THE SOFTWARE AND ITS CONTENTS THEREOF.</p>

<p>
BY DOWNLOADING AND INSTALLING THE SOFTWARE ON YOUR COMPUTER OR BY CLICKING A BUTTON MARKED “I
ACCEPT” OR SOMETHING SIMILAR, AS APPLICABLE, YOU AGREE TO BE BOUND BY THE TERMS OF THIS EULA. YOU
AGREE THAT INSTALLATION OR USE OF THE SOFTWARE SIGNIFIES THAT YOU HAVE READ, UNDERSTOOD AND AGREE TO
BE BOUND BY THIS EULA.</p>

<p>
IF YOU ARE AN INDIVIDUAL, YOU WARRANT THAT YOU ARE AT LEAST EIGHTEEN YEARS OLD AND THAT YOU HAVE THE
LEGAL CAPACITY TO ENTER THIS EULA. IF YOU ARE ENTERING INTO THIS EULA ON BEHALF OF A COMPANY,
ORGANIZATION, OR OTHER ENTITY, THEN (A) <b>“YOU”</b> AS USED HEREIN ADDITIONALLY REFERS TO THAT
COMPANY, ORGANIZATION, OR ENTITY; AND (B) YOU REPRESENT AND WARRANT THAT YOU HAVE THE AUTHORITY TO
BIND SUCH COMPANY, ORGANIZATION, OR ENTITY TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS SET FORTH HEREIN.</p>

<p>
BY DOWNLOADING AND INSTALLING THE SOFTWARE, YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE READ THIS ENTIRE EULA AND YOUR
CONTINUED USE OF THE SOFTWARE IS EXPRESSLY CONDITIONED ON YOUR ACCEPTANCE OF THE TERMS AND
CONDITIONS OF THIS EULA. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE TO THIS EULA, DO NOT CHECK THE “I ACCEPT” BOX (OR
SIMILAR) AND DO NOT USE THE SOFTWARE.</p>

<h2>1. Definitions</h2>

<p>
<b>“Documentation”</b> means any user information provided by Lynx in connection with the Software,
either distributed directly to You or available at <a
href="https://lynxkite.com/">lynxkite.com</a>.</p>

<p>
<b>“Software”</b> means Lynx’s proprietary software program(s) in object code only, excluding any
software updates, made available by Lynx under this EULA.</p>

<p>
<b>“Intellectual Property Rights”</b> means any rights, titles and interests, whether foreign or
domestic, in and to any trade secrets, patents, copyrights, service marks, trademarks, know-how, or
similar intellectual property rights, as well as moral rights, rights of privacy, publicity and
similar rights of any type under the laws or regulations of any governmental, regulatory, or
judicial authority.</p>

<h2>2. Assumption of Risk</h2>

<p>
You expressly acknowledge and agree that use of the Software is at Your sole risk and You shall be
solely responsible for any losses, damage or harm arising from Your use of the Software and how You
protect the privacy of Your information from prying third parties, including the input of Your
log-in information and closing the software browser after using it. You expressly acknowledge sole
responsibility for the use of the software by You.</p>

<h2>3. License and Restrictions</h2>

<p>
The Software is delivered with a license for evaluation purposes (the <b>“Evaluation License”</b>)
under the following conditions:</p>

<ol type="a">
<li><u>Scope:</u> Subject to Your performance under this EULA, Lynx grants You a free-of-charge,
limited, nonexclusive, non-transferable license (without the right to sublicense) to copy and use
the Documentation and install and use the Software solely in object code form on compatible devices
owned or controlled by You, solely for Your internal evaluation of the software.</li>

<li><u>Term:</u> The license is granted to You for a period of twelve (12) months, or for another
duration agreed to in writing by Lynx and You or until such time as the license is terminated by
either party in accordance with clause 7, beginning from the date the Software is made available to
You (the <b>“Term”</b>). Lynx may extend the Term at its discretion by entering into a separate
agreement with you, in which case the conditions of this EULA shall prevail for the new Term.</li>

<li><u>Upgrades and Additional Terms:</u> Granting Evaluation licenses is solely at Lynx’s
discretion and providing one version of the Software on an Evaluation License basis does not
indicate that Lynx will provide another version of the Software on a similar basis or make available
any updates or upgrades, including those necessary for data security. The terms of this EULA govern
any upgrades provided by Lynx that replace and/or supplement the original version of the Software,
unless such upgrade is accompanied by a separate license in which case the terms of that license
will govern.  In addition, when using any particular functionalities and features that are part of
the Software, you may be subject to additional guidelines, terms, or rules applicable to such
functionalities and features (<b>“Additional Terms”</b>), which may be posted from time to time and
are hereby incorporated by reference into this EULA.</li>

<li><u>Restrictions:</u> You may not (and may not permit any third party to): (a) reproduce,
distribute, sublicense, assign, use for service-bureau purposes, sell, rent, lease, or otherwise
transfer the Software to any third parties; (b) modify or create derivative works of the Software;
(c) reverse-engineer, decompile, disassemble, reverse-assemble, or otherwise attempt to derive the
source code of the Software; (d) remove or alter any proprietary notices or marks on the Software;
(e) make the Software available over a network or other environment permitting access or use by
multiple users; (f) use the Software at any time in the operation of any business; (g) publish or
provide any Software benchmark or comparison test results; or (h) use the Software for any purpose
other than Your own internal evaluation as contemplated by this EULA. It is also a violation of this
EULA to use any information obtained from or through the Software in order to harass, abuse, or harm
another person, or in order to contact, advertise to, solicit, or sell to any person without their
prior explicit consent. You understand and acknowledge that we have a reputation to protect, and
that we want to provide a good and positive service to users of the Software, so any violation of
this EULA by You may cause us substantial harm. Accordingly, you agree that we may enforce this EULA
to the fullest extent permitted by law.</li>
</ol>

<h2>4. Data Privacy</h2>

<p>
From time to time and at Lynx’s request, you may be asked to provide in writing details of work
done, of how the software has been utilised by its end-users, or to share other usage data and
metrics. Lynx may use this information, as long as it is in a form that does not personally identify
You, to improve its products or to provide support and other services or technologies to You or
other users in relation to the Software.</p>

<p>
For all other information provided to us, you may further consult Lynx’s Privacy Policy (available
at
<a href="https://www.lynxanalytics.com/privacy-policy/">www.lynxanalytics.com/privacy-policy</a>),
which is hereby incorporated by reference. By using the Software, you acknowledge that You have read
and accept this Privacy Policy. You agree that Lynx reserves its rights to investigate complaints or
allegations of abuse, infringement of third-party rights, or violations of this EULA in event of the
occurrence of such a situation.</p>

<h2>5. Ownership</h2>

<p>
Lynx owns and retains all Intellectual Property Rights relating to the Software (including all
upgrades thereto), and any suggestions, ideas, enhancement requests, feedback, recommendations or
other information provided by You or any third party relating to the Software (the
<b>“Feedback”</b>), including all applicable Intellectual Property Rights therein, shall become the
sole property of Lynx. You further agree that Lynx be free to use and exploit in any manner any
ideas, concepts, know-how or techniques contained in such Feedback for any purpose without your or a
third party’s consent, and without payment of any consideration to You or a third party, and you
hereby assign all rights, title and interest in such Feedback to Lynx. There are no implied licenses
under this EULA, and all rights not expressly granted are hereby reserved.</p>

<h2>6. Maintenance and Support</h2>

<p>
You agree and acknowledge that Lynx will have no duty under this EULA to provide technical support
or maintenance of any kind with respect to the Software and that it reserves the right for such
support services, if any, to be performed solely pursuant to a separate written contract between the
Parties. Lynx may choose to offer at its option, but is not obligated to provide, some basic support
that may include email support, upgrades, updates or bug fixes.</p>

<h2>7. Term and termination</h2>

<ol type="a">
<li><u>Term.</u>  This EULA commences on the date the Software is made available to You and
continues for the Term, unless terminated earlier under Section 7.b. below.</li>

<li><u>Termination.</u>  This EULA may be terminated by Lynx at any time at its discretion upon
notice to You.  Furthermore, if You fail to comply with any term(s) of this EULA, Your rights under
this license will terminate automatically without notice.</li>
</ol>

<h2>8. Third party software</h2>

<p>
The Software may be distributed with certain third-party software components, including open source
software licensed under open source licenses (the <b>“Third-Party Software”</b>).  Nothing herein is
intended, nor shall be deemed or interpreted, to limit or restrict any rights you may have under
such separate terms. Such Third-Party Software is licensed to you under the applicable third-party
license. Upon request and at no charge, Lynx will provide you with a copy of the source code to
Third-Party Software which is open source software. You may not modify or make derivative works of
third-party software for use with the Software.</p>

<h2>9. Warranty disclaimer</h2>

<p>
You acknowledge that the Software has not been prepared to meet Your individual requirements and
that it is therefore Your responsibility to ensure that the facilities and functions meet Your own
requirements. Lynx does not warrant that the Software will be error-free or that the Software will
work without interruptions. The express terms of this EULA are in lieu of all warranties,
conditions, terms, undertakings and obligations implied by statute, common law, custom, trade usage,
course of dealing or otherwise, all of which are hereby excluded to the fullest extent permitted by
law.</p>

<h2>10. Limitation of Liability</h2>

<p>
To the extent not prohibited by law, in no event shall either party be liable for personal injury,
or any incidental, special, indirect or consequential damages whatsoever, including, without
limitation, damages for loss of profits, loss of data, business interruption or any other commercial
damages or losses, arising out of or related to your use or inability to use the Software.</p>

<h2>11. Release</h2>

<p>
Without limiting anything provided herein, and to the extent permitted under applicable laws, You
hereby release Lynx from any liability related to: (a) any incorrect or inaccurate content posted on
or through the Software, whether caused by any user of the Software, or by any of the equipment or
programming associated with or utilized in the Software; (b) the conduct, whether online or offline,
of any user of the Software; (c) any problems or technical malfunction of any telephone network or
lines, computer online systems, servers or providers, computer equipment, software, or failure of
email on account of technical problems or traffic congestion on the Internet or at any sites, or
combination thereof, including injury or damage to user’s or to any other person’s computer or other
mobile device related to or resulting from participating or downloading materials in connection with
the Software; (d) any loss or damage caused by content posted on or through the Software or
transmitted by and to users, or any interactions between users of the Software, whether online or
offline; and (e) any error, omission, interruption, deletion, defect, delay in operation or
transmission, communications line failure, theft or destruction or unauthorized access to, or
alteration of, the Software.</p>

<h2>12. Indemnity</h2>

<p>
You shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless Lynx, its directors, officers, employees and agents
against any third party claims, demands and actions, and any liabilities, damages or expenses
resulting therefrom, including court costs and legal costs (on a full indemnity basis), arising out
of or relating to Your use of the Software, all communications transmitted thereunder or any breach
of the representations, warranties, covenants, or other obligations made You hereunder, provided
that Lynx shall give You prompt notice of any action or proceeding brought against Lynx and shall
reasonably cooperate with You in the defense and settlement of such claim, demand or action.</p>

<h2>13. Contact</h2>

<p>
In the event You have any questions, feedback, complaints or claims with respect to the Software
please contact Lynx, at <a
href="mailto:lynxkite@lynxanalytics.com">lynxkite@lynxanalytics.com</a>.</p>

<h2>14. Governing Law</h2>

<p>
This Entire EULA shall be governed by the laws of the Republic of Singapore.</p>

<h2>15. Entire Agreement</h2>

<p>
This EULA constitutes the entire agreement between the parties regarding the subject, and supersedes
all previous communications and agreements between the parties regarding the subject. No amendment
or modification will be valid or binding upon either party unless made in writing and signed by the
authorized representatives of both parties. If a portion of this EULA is held unenforceable, the
unenforceable portion will be construed under applicable law nearly as possible to reflect the
original intentions of the parties, and the remainder of the EULA will remain in full force and
effect.</p>
